Add release notes for v23.1.9 (#17819)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v23.1/v23.1.9.md

## v23.1.9

Release Date: September 7, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-9-general-changes">General changes</h3>

> - Henceforth, all [cluster version upgrades](../v23.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html) perform a [catalog](../v23.1/system-catalogs.html) health check and repair upgrade step before proceeding to other upgrade steps. [#105826][#105826]

Author: Hahahahaha

Fixed, thanks

(PS I appreciate the commit suggestions but I don't know how to use them as well as the local git commands without messing up my local repo state so that's why I'm not using them.  So I'll make these edits locally, commit, squash, and push.  Just didn't want you to think I was ignoring them)

- [Upgrading the cluster version](../v23.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html) to a new release will not only check for descriptor- and other [catalog](../v23.1/system-catalogs.html) corruptions but will attempt to repair some of them on a best-effort basis. This should seamlessly get rid of all longstanding descriptor back-reference corruptions, which typically don't manifest themselves until a [schema change](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html) or an upgrade are performed. [#106217][#106217]

<h3 id="v23-1-9-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [Changefeeds](../v23.1/create-and-configure-changefeeds.html) should no longer fail when upgrading to [v23.1.5](../releases/v23.1.html#v23-1-5). [#106399][#106399]

> - Fixed an issue where [changefeeds](../v23.1/create-changefeed.html) emitting to a cloud sink with compression may experience resource leakage (memory and goroutines) when experiencing transient errors. [#106857][#106857]

Author: Noice, thanks

> - Augmented the credentials lookup chain for the implicit authentication method in Azure storage and KMS to first look for credentials in a file before proceeding on to the rest of the chain specified in the `DefaultAzureCredential` class (env vars, Managed Identity, etc.). The path of this file is specified by the environment variable `COCKROACH_AZURE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_FILE` and, if not empty, is expected point to a file that provides the Azure Tenant ID, Client ID, and Client Secret that will be used to access the storage or KMS resource in the following YAML format: `azure_tenant_id: MY_TENANT_ID, azure_client_id: MY_CLIENT_ID, azure_client_secret: MY_CLIENT_SECRET ` [#106688][#106688]

Author: Fixed

> - Fixed a rare [changefeed](../v23.1/create-changefeed.html) issue which is triggered when the parent database or types are dropped, and instead of exiting with a descriptive error message, the changefeed would observe the following opaque error instead: `value type is not BYTES: UNKNOWN`. [#107933][#107933]

Author: Nice tense change, thank you

- Fixed a potential deadlock when running [changefeeds](../v23.1/create-changefeed.html) with the `end_time` option set. [#108074][#108074]

<h3 id="v23-1-9-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added a `crdb_internal.reset_activity_tables` [builtin function](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html) to allow users to reset the [statistics](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) in the `system.statement_activity` and `system.transaction_activity` tables. Users require [`admin`](../v23.1/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) to use this builtin. [#106129][#106129]

> - CockroachDB now reports contention time encountered while executing the mutation statements ([`INSERT`](../v23.1/insert.html), [`UPSERT`](../v23.1/upsert.html), [`UPDATE`](../v23.1/update.html), and [`DELETE`](../v23.1/delete.html)) when run via [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](../v23.1/explain-analyze.html). [#106432][#106432]

Author: Indeed! Good catch, thanks!

- Fixed a bug in [`COPY CSV WITH HEADER`](../v23.1/copy-from.html) that was first introduced in [v23.1](../releases/v23.1.html). On previous versions of CockroachDB, a workaround is to disable [vectorized](../v23.1/vectorized-execution.html) `COPY` by setting the `vectorize` [session variable](../v23.1/set-vars.html#supported-variables) to `false` or to remove the header row from the `COPY` data. [#106967][#106967]
- Added a new boolean [cluster setting ](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) `sql.telemetry.query_sampling.internal.enabled`. If `true`, internal app queries will be reported to telemetry when query sampling to telemetry is enabled. [#107182][#107182]

> - The `SHOW QUERIES` and [`SHOW SESSIONS`](../v23.1/show-sessions.html) commands now will display timestamps using the session's timezone setting. [#108144][#108144]

Author: Fixed

- Added the [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) `sql.stats.limit_table_size.enabled`, which controls whether or not we enforce the row limit set by the `sql.stats.persited_rows.max` cluster setting in the `system.statement_statistics` and `system.transaction_statistics` tables. [#108913][#108913]
- Optimized the `sql-stats-compaction` [job](../v23.1/show-jobs.html)'s [delete query](../v23.1/delete.html) to avoid a [full scan](../v23.1/sql-tuning-with-explain.html#issue-full-table-scans). This helps avoid a [transaction retry error](../v23.1/common-errors.html#restart-transaction) which can cause the job to fail. [#108990][#108990]
- Introspection queries will now show the internal `node` user as the owner of tables in [`pg_catalog`](../v23.1/pg-catalog.html) and [`information_schema`](../v23.1/information-schema.html). Previously, the owner was shown as `admin`, but that was inaccurate since users with [the `admin` role](../v23.1/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) could not modify these tables in any way. [#109736][#109736]

<h3 id="v23-1-9-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

> - Added two new [metrics](../v23.1/metrics.html) to monitor [lease range preference](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#lease_preferences) conformance: `leases.preferences.violating` indicates the number of valid leases a [store](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html#store) owns which satisfy none of the preferences applied; `leases.preferences.less-preferred` indicates the number of valid leases a store owns which satisfy some of the preferences applied, but not the first preference. [#107622][#107622]

Author: thanks, I can never seem to remember this one no matter how many times I peer slowly at https://www.writersdigest.com/write-better-fiction/which-vs-that  :-D

- The RPC dial and heartbeat timeouts can now be configured via the following environment variables: `COCKROACH_RPC_DIAL_TIMEOUT`, which defaults to 2x the value of `COCKROACH_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`; `COCKROACH_RPC_HEARTBEAT_TIMEOUT`, which defaults to 3x `COCKROACH_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`. This allows configuring these values independently of [`COCKROACH_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`](../v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer.html#grpc), which defaults to {{site.data.constants.cockroach_network_timeout}}. [#109359][#109359]
- The default gRPC server-side send timeout has been increased from 2 seconds to 4 seconds (that is, from 1x to 2x the default value of [`COCKROACH_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`](../v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer.html#grpc)), to avoid spurious connection failures in certain scenarios. This can be controlled via the new environment variable `COCKROACH_RPC_SERVER_TIMEOUT`. [#109621][#109621]

> - Added a new gauge [metric](../v23.1/metrics.html) `sql.schema.invalid_objects`. This gauge is periodically updated based on the schedule set by the `sql.schema.telemetry.recurrence` [cluster setting.](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html). When the metric is updated, it counts the number of schema objects ([tables](../v23.1/create-table.html), [types](../v23.1/create-type.html), [schemas](../v23.1/create-schema.html), [databases](../v23.1/create-database.html), and [functions](../v23.1/user-defined-functions.html)) that are in an invalid state according to CockroachDB's internal validation checks. This metric is expected to be zero (`0`) in a healthy cluster. If it is not zero, it indicates that there is a problem that must be repaired. [#109739][#109739]

Author: OOOH, I LOVE IT

<h3 id="v23-1-9-cluster-virtualization-and-multi-tenancy">Cluster virtualization and multi-tenancy</h3>

> - This patch renames the subdirectory inside the output of [`cockroach debug zip`](../v23.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) to be `cluster` when pointed to a cluster with virtualization enabled. This change brings the UX into coherence with the `cluster` parameter in [`cockroach sql`](../v23.1/cockroach-sql.html) and the `cluster` [HTTP API](../v23.1/cluster-api.html) parameter. [#106376][#106376]

Author: Fixed

<h3 id="v23-1-9-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The generic DB Console "unexpected error" message now includes details about the actual error, along with other context to make it easier to root cause. [cockroachdb/cockroach#106404][#106404]
- Fixed a bug where the [job details page](../v23.1/ui-jobs-page.html) would flicker between the job details and a loading animation when a job was still executing. [#106153][#106153]

> - Added a timescale label to the **diagnostics** tab of the [Statement Details page](../v23.1/ui-statements-page.html). Users are now able to see the time window for which the [statement diagnostics](../v23.1/explain-analyze.html#explain-analyze-debug) are displayed. [#107082][#107082]

Author: sickos_yes.jpeg

- Fixed the options selection in the **Sort** dropdown on the [Network Latency page](../v23.1/ui-network-latency-page.html). [#107213][#107213]

> - Search is performed on all ID fields of the [transaction and statement insights tables](../v23.1/ui-insights-page.html). [#107762][#107762]

Author: First thought: I have no idea!  

Second thought: OK I looked at [the docs](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/ui-insights-page) and I also watched a video attached to the PR and updated this line to the (hopefully) more correct:

- Search is performed on all ID fields of the **Transaction Executions** and **Statement Executions** views on the [Insights Page](../v23.1/ui-insights-page.html). [#107762][#107762]

- Enabled the `Now` option on the time picker that appears on several pages of the [DB Console](../v23.1/ui-overview.html). [cockroachdb/cockroach#107837][#107837]

<h3 id="v23-1-9-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the **node** and **regions** columns on the [Database and Database Details pages](../v23.1/ui-databases-page.html) did not properly render. This column is hidden for tenants; otherwise, it is shown for clusters with more than 1 node. [#105824][#105824]
- Fixed an internal error when using [`EXPLAIN (TYPES)`](../v23.1/explain.html#types-option) on a [`DELETE FROM ... USING ... RETURNING`](../v23.1/delete.html) statemen. This error was introduced in v23.1.0. [#106196][#106196]

> - Fixed a bug which manifested itself in error messages containing "failed to drop all of the relevant elements" when executing DDL statements with the declarative [schema changer](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html). What this really means is that there's a concurrent schema change that's ongoing. Instead we now behave as expected and wait for it to finish. [#106286][#106286]

Author: Fixed!

- The statement tag for [`SHOW SEQUENCES`](../v23.1/show-sequences.html) is now corrected to be `SHOW SEQUENCES` instead of [`SHOW SCHEMAS`](../v23.1/show-schemas.html). [#106797][#106797]
- Fixed a rare bug in which some uploads via [`cockroach userfile upload`](../v23.1/cockroach-userfile-upload.html) would silently upload incorrect data. [#106698][#106698]
- Fixed the `StatementStatistics.Nodes` to contain all the nodes involved in the query. Fixed region info in [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DISTSQL)`](../v23.1/explain-analyze.html) for secondary tenants. [#106776][#106776]
- Under prolonged unavailability (such as loss of [quorum](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-overview-consensus)), affected [ranges](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range) would exhibit [Raft log](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#raft-logs) growth that was quadratic as a function of the duration of the outage. Now this growth is approximately linear instead. [#106054][#106054]

> - Fixed a bug on the [Metrics](../v23.1/metrics.html) page that was causing it to not update automatically on rolling window options. [#106766][#106766]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug on the [**Metrics**](../v23.1/metrics.html) page that was causing it to not update automatically on rolling window options. [#106766][#106766]
```

Author: Fixed!

- Blocked dropping of [indexes](../v23.1/indexes.html) impacted by [Technical Advisory 99561](../advisories/a99561.html) if dropping those indexes could cause data loss to occur. [#106863][#106863]
- [Debug zips](../v23.1/cockroach-debug-zip.html) are now properly showing the information from [`crdb_internal.cluster_settings`](../v23.1/crdb-internal.html). The file `crdb_internal.cluster_settings.txt` in debug zips was empty due to this bug on CockroachDB [v23.1.5](../releases/v23.1.html#v23-1-5) (which was the only version affected). [#107105][#107105]
- A bug has been fixed that caused internal errors instead of user errors when queries contained labelled [tuples](../v23.1/scalar-expressions.html#tuple-constructors) with a different number of elements and labels, e.g., `(ROW(1, 2) AS a)`. This bug had been present since CockroachDB [v23.1.0](../releases/v23.1.html). [#106959][#106959]
- Fixed a failing [schema change](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html) [job](../v23.1/show-jobs.html) when [CREATE TABLE AS](../v23.1/create-table-as.html) or [`CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW AS`](../v23.1/create-view.html) sources from a `SHOW` command as in the following examples [#107226][#107226]:

>     1. `CREATE TABLE t AS SELECT * FROM [SHOW CREATE TABLE tbl];`

Reviewer: Nit: I suggest making this an unordered list since it's not sequential.

- Fixed a bug in the SQL syntax for [`CREATE TABLE AS`](../v23.1/create-table-as.html) [schema change](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html) [job](../v23.1/show-jobs.html) description. [#107404][#107404]
- Fixed an internal error in [`UPDATE`](../v23.1/update.html), [`UPSERT`](../v23.1/upsert.html), [`INSERT`](../v23.1/insert.html), or [`DELETE`](../v23.1/delete.html) statements run concurrently with [`ALTER TABLE ... ADD COLUMN`](../v23.1/alter-table.html#add-column) of a [virtual computed column](../v23.1/computed-columns.html#virtual-computed-columns) on the same table. [#107403][#107403]
- Fixed a bug that caused internal errors when using [user-defined types](../v23.1/create-type.html) in [views](../v23.1/views.html) and [user-defined functions](../v23.1/user-defined-functions.html) that have [subqueries](../v23.1/subqueries.html). This bug was present when using views since version [v21.2](../releases/v21.2.html). It was present when using user-defined functions since [v23.1](../releases/v23.1.html). [#106955][#106955]

> - The timeout duration when loading the [Hot Ranges page](../v23.1/ui-hot-ranges-page.html) has been increased to 30 minutes. [#107497][#107497]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The timeout duration when loading the [**Hot Ranges** page](../v23.1/ui-hot-ranges-page.html) has been increased to 30 minutes. [#107497][#107497]
```

- Fixed the SQL syntax for [`CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW AS`](../v23.1/views.html#materialized-views) [schema change](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html) [job](../v23.1/show-jobs.html) descriptions. [cockroachdb/cockroach#107471][#107471]

> - This change reduces [contention](../v23.1/performance-best-practices-overview.html#transaction-contention) on the `system.statement_statistics` table which has caused the [SQL statistics](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) compaction [job](../v23.1/show-jobs.html) to fail. [#107573][#107573]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reduced [contention](../v23.1/performance-best-practices-overview.html#transaction-contention) on the `system.statement_statistics` table, which has caused the [SQL statistics](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) compaction [job](../v23.1/show-jobs.html) to fail. [#107573][#107573]
```

- The `ST_ClosestPoint` [spatial function](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html#spatial-functions) previously did not preserve the correct [SRID](../v23.1/srid-4326.html) when comparing two different [points](../v23.1/point.html). This is now resolved. [#107595][#107595]
- CockroachDB would previously crash when evaluating the `ST_AsEncodedPolyline` [builtin function](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html#spatial-functions) on a [`GEOMETRYCOLLECTION` geometry type](../v23.1/geometrycollection.html). The bug was introduced before CockroachDB [v22.1](../releases/v22.1.html) and is now fixed. [#107901][#107901]

> - Dropping an [index](../v23.1/indexes.html) could end up failing or cleaning [foreign keys](../v23.1/foreign-key.html) (when `CASCADE` is specified) on other tables referencing the target table with this index. [#107793][#107793]

Author: Fixed!

- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB would return an error when using [`SHOW RANGE ... FOR ROW ...`](../v23.1/show-range-for-row.html) in a [`CREATE TABLE AS`](../v23.1/create-table-as.html) construct. [#107603][#107603]
- Cloud buckets containing [backups](../v23.1/backup.html) can now be copied via AWS DataSync and other third-party services which insert empty objects with a trailing `/`. Previously, [restore](../v23.1/restore.html) would fail with the following error message: `read LATEST path: path does not contain a completed latest backup: NoSuchKey`. [#106235][#106235]

> - [`DROP COLUMN CASCADE`](../v23.1/alter-table.html#drop-column) involving a [primary key](../v23.1/primary-key.html) column could end up hanging. [#107987][#107987]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where [`DROP COLUMN CASCADE`](../v23.1/alter-table.html#drop-column) involving a [primary key](../v23.1/primary-key.html) column could end up hanging. [#107987][#107987]
```

Author: Fixed!

- Fixed a nil pointer dereference caused by a race condition when using the `to_char` [builtin function](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html). [#108079][#108079]
- Since [v22.2.0](../releases/v22.2.html), using a PTP clock device (enabled by the [`--clock-device` flag](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html#flags-clock-device)) would generate timestamps in the far future. It now generates the correct time. This could cause nodes to crash due to incorrect timestamps, or in the worst case irreversibly advance the cluster's [HLC clock](../v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer.html#time-and-hybrid-logical-clocks) into the far future. [#108113][#108113]

> - Previously, CockroachDB, when planning expressions containing many sub-expressions (e.g. deeply-nested `AND` / `OR` structures) would use memory quadratic in the number of sub-expressions. In the worst cases (thousands of sub-expressions), this could lead to [OOMs](../v23.1/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.html#out-of-memory-oom-crash). The bug had been present since at least [v22.1](../releases/v22.1.html) and has now been fixed. [#107368][#107368]

Author: Fixed!

- Added cancel checking to [index](../v23.1/indexes.html) constraint initialization code to allow queries to timeout during [query optimization](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) if analyzing predicates to constrain an index starts using too many resources. Example of setting a timeout using the [`statement_timeout` session setting](../v23.1/set-vars.html#statement-timeout): `SET statement_timeout='5.0s';` [#106942][#106942]
- CockroachDB previously could encounter an internal error `unexpected non-zero bytes limit for txnKVStreamer` when evaluating [locality-optimized](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#locality-optimized-search-in-multi-region-clusters) lookup [joins](../v23.1/joins.html) in case it had to perform the remote regions' lookup. The bug was introduced in [v22.2](../releases/v22.2.html) and is now fixed. A temporary workaround can be accomplished without upgrading by setting the `streamer_enabled` [session variable](../v23.1/set-vars.html): `SET streamer_enabled = false;`. [#108251][#108251]

> - Fixed a spurious error "no data source matches prefix" that could occur during [planning for a query](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) with `DISTINCT ON` and [`ORDER BY ASC NULLS LAST`](../v23.1/order-by.html) or `ORDER BY DESC NULLS FIRST`. [#108303][#108303]

Author: Fixed

> - Fixed an [optimizer](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) costing bug introduced in [v23.1](../releases/v23.1.html) which may cause a query involving two or more [joins](../v23.1/joins.html) with [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v23.1/table-localities.html#regional-by-row-tables) tables to not pick the most optimal [lookup joins](../v23.1/joins.html#lookup-joins). [#108308][#108308]

Author: Fixed

> - This patch fixes an [optimizer](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) costing bug introduced in [v23.1](../releases/v23.1.html) which may cause a query whose best-cost query plan is a string of [lookup joins](../v23.1/joins.html#lookup-joins) with [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v23.1/table-localities.html#regional-by-row-tables) tables, one after the other in sequence, to not pick the most optimal join plan. [#108308][#108308]

Author: Fixed

> - Previously, using [`IMPORT INTO`](../v23.1/import-into.html) for `DELIMITED DATA` or MySQL imports would error with `column ... does not exist` if it was importing into a [collated string](../v23.1/collate.html) column. [#108286][#108286]

Author: Fixed

> - Fixed a bug introduced in [v23.1](../releases/v23.1.html) that could cause the precision of some values to be incorrectly truncated for a query with a correlated [subquery](../v23.1/subqueries.html) and an equality between a column from the subquery and the outer query. This applies to types that are "equivalent" but have different precision levels, e.g. [`DECIMAL(10, 0)`](../v23.1/decimal.html) vs `DECIMAL(10, 2)` or `NAME` vs [`CHAR`](../v23.1/string.html). [#108198][#108198]

Author: Fixed

- Fixed a bug where [`BEGIN`](../v23.1/begin-transaction.html), [`COMMIT`](../v23.1/commit-transaction.html), [`SET`](../v23.1/set-vars.html), [`ROLLBACK`](../v23.1/rollback-transaction.html), and [`SAVEPOINT`](../v23.1/savepoint.html) statements would not be written to the [execution](../v23.1/logging-overview.html#logging-destinations) or [audit logs](../v23.1/sql-audit-logging.html). [#108411][#108411]
- Fixed a bug where a session migration performed by `SHOW TRANSFER STATE` would not handle prepared statements that used the [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME` clause](../v23.1/as-of-system-time.html). Users who encountered this bug would see errors such as `expected 1 or 0 for number of format codes, got N`. This bug was present since [v22.2.0](../releases/v22.2.html). [#108548][#108548]

> - Fixed errors on the [Sessions page](../v23.1/ui-sessions-page.html) in the [DB Console](../v23.1/ui-overview.html) when a session's memory usage is zero bytes. [cockroachdb/cockroach#108733][#108733]

Author: Fixed

- Fixed a bug introduced in [v22.1](../releases/v22.1.html) that could cause a [join](../v23.1/joins.html) to infinite-loop in rare cases when (1) the join filter is not an equality and (2) no columns from the left input are returned. [#108821][#108821]

> - Fixed an issue with the full scan filter on the [Statements page](../v23.1/ui-statements-page.html) where the filter was always evaluating to false, even if a full scan had occurred. [cockroachdb/cockroach#109254][#109254]

Author: Fixed

> - Fixed a bug that could cause CPU usage to increase over time. [#109298][#109298]

Author: Looking at the code, it appears to be somewhere in the metrics jobs code, but it could have been anywhere.  It's mostly an obscure internal Golang thing about "contexts" so I think if someone has expertise/curiosity and wants to read the PR they can (it's a one-line change)

- Fixed an issue where a [split](../v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer.html#range-splits) can be called on an invalid key that's in the form of `someValidKey.Next()` during [restore](../v23.1/restore.html). This split key can land in the middle of a row with [column families](../v23.1/column-families.html), and thus result in failing SQL queries when querying the restored table. [#109778][#109778]
- Fixed an issue where a [split](../v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer.html#range-splits) can be called on an invalid key that's in the form of `someValidKey.Next()` during [restore](../v23.1/restore.html) with the [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) `bulkio.restore.use_simple_import_spans=true`. This split key can land in the middle of a row with [column families](../v23.1/column-families.html), and thus result in failing SQL queries when querying the restored table. [#109939][#109939]

> - A bug has been fixed that caused a flood of requests to refresh [cluster settings](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) on the [Advanced Debug page](../v23.1/ui-debug-pages.html#configuration). If a user would like to see the effect of a modified cluster setting in [DB Console](../v23.1/ui-overview.html), a page-reload is required. [cockroachdb/cockroach#108125][#108125]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that caused a flood of requests to refresh [cluster settings](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) on the [Advanced Debug page](../v23.1/ui-debug-pages.html#configuration). If a user would like to see the effect of a modified cluster setting in [DB Console](../v23.1/ui-overview.html), a page reload is now required. [cockroachdb/cockroach#108125][#108125]
```

<h3 id="v23-1-9-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

> - [Backups](../v23.1/backup-and-restore-overview.html) no longer perform work proportional to the number of pending [write intents](../v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer.html#write-intents) that they encounter, so they are over 100x faster when encountering long-running, bulk writing transactions. [#105526][#105526]

Author: Fixed!

- Queries that access [`pg_catalog`](../v23.1/pg-catalog.html) and [`information_schema`](../v23.1/information-schema.html) that perform introspection on other tables in those schemas are now significantly faster. [#109736][#109736]

<h3 id="v23-1-9-build-changes">Build changes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug in Cluster UI publishing due to `pnpm` version. [cockroachdb/cockroach#107575][#107575]

Reviewer: Is this one necessary for public release notes?

Author: Nah let's remove it, build stuff

> <h3 id="v23-1-9-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

Reviewer: I haven't done this in a while, but I think I usually relocate the notes under this heading to other headings.

- The [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) `kv.allocator.lease_rebalance_threshold` can now be used to control the minimum fraction away from the mean a [store's](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html#store) lease count before it is considered for lease transfers. The default setting is 0.05. [#105950][#105950]

> - On Linux/ARM64, use 16k page sizes in jemalloc. [#107131][#107131]

Reviewer: My best guess based on the PR.

```suggestion
- On Linux/ARM64, 16k page sizes are now used in jemalloc. This allows Linux/ARM64 users with 16k pages to run `cockroach`. [#107131][#107131]
```

Author: I like it! Updated, thanks
